docs(guides): add Jellyfin guide (#2255)
pomerium/documentation: content/docs/guides/jellyfin.mdx

---
title: Secure Jellyfin with Pomerium
sidebar_label: Jellyfin
lang: en-US
keywords:
  [
    pomerium,
    jellyfin,
    media server,
    sso,
    oidc,
    identity aware proxy,
    self-hosted,
  ]
description: Put a self-hosted Jellyfin media server behind Pomerium so every browser request is authenticated and authorized at the front door before it reaches Jellyfin.
# cSpell:ignore jellyfin chromecast
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

import Config from '/content/examples/guides/jellyfin/config.yaml.md';
import Compose from '/content/examples/guides/jellyfin/docker-compose.yaml.md';

# Secure Jellyfin with Pomerium

## What this guide does

You'll put a self-hosted [Jellyfin](https://jellyfin.org/) media server behind Pomerium so that Pomerium becomes the single front door for the web client: every browser request is authenticated against your identity provider (IdP) and checked against your policy before it ever reaches Jellyfin. Jellyfin keeps running its own login and user accounts on top, so Pomerium acts as an additional gate rather than replacing Jellyfin's accounts.

> The value of Pomerium here is centralized single sign-on (SSO), group-based policy, and an audit trail in front of a service you'd otherwise expose to the internet on its own. You sign in once with your organization identity, your group membership decides who can even reach the server, and every access decision is logged at the proxy. That is the point, not adding a second password prompt -- Jellyfin already has its own login.

Reviewer: To me it feels like this paragraph duplicates the preceding one.

I'd suggest condensing it or removing it entirely. Or at least deleting the last "That is the point" sentence, which feels very LLM-y to me.

> ```mermaid

Reviewer: I think this diagram may be more complicated than helpful.

I'm also confused about whether there's a recommended path for native apps or not? What is the "separate path" mentioned in the diagram?

If we do want a diagram here would something simpler be easier to understand? Maybe something with a structure more like this?

```
 Jellyfin
    ^
    |
 Pomerium
   ^  ^
  /    \
Web     Native app
browser
```

sequenceDiagram
  actor U as User (browser)
  participant P as Pomerium
  participant I as IdP (OIDC)
  participant J as Jellyfin
  actor T as Native TV / Chromecast app

  U ->> P: GET https://jellyfin.yourdomain.com
  P ->> I: No session, redirect to sign in
  I -->> P: SSO success, identity + groups
  P ->> P: Evaluate policy (allow group / email)
  P ->> J: Proxy request (gate passed)
  J -->> U: Jellyfin web client (its own login on top)
  Note over T,J: Native apps send Jellyfin API tokens<br/>and cannot complete the browser SSO gate
  T ->> J: Direct API call, if you expose a separate path
```

## When to use this guide

Use it when you run self-hosted Jellyfin and want to make sure only people from your organization can even reach the web interface, without exposing Jellyfin directly to the internet. Pomerium handles the network-level access decision; Jellyfin continues to manage libraries, its own user sessions, and playback behind that gate.

> This guide gates browser access. Before you adopt it, read the [Security considerations](#security-considerations): Jellyfin's native TV, mobile, and Chromecast apps authenticate directly to Jellyfin's application programming interface (API) with Jellyfin tokens and do not pass through a browser SSO flow, so gating the whole host root breaks them. If you rely on those clients, gate Jellyfin selectively or keep it on a private network reachable another way.

Reviewer: I feel like this keeps repeating the same point, but in a vague way such that I still don't understand what it's trying to say.

## Prerequisites

> This guide assumes you've completed the [Quickstart](/docs/get-started/quickstart), so you already have Pomerium running and signing users in through the hosted authenticate service.

Reviewer: Is the quickstart really needed? What does it cover that isn't included in the configuration files here?

4. Raise the request **Timeout** (or set it to 0 for no limit), and set a generous **Idle Timeout** such as `600s`. Direct-play streams and file downloads are long plain HTTP responses, separate from the WebSocket control channel.
5. Set the policy to scope access to who should reach Jellyfin (for example, **Any Authenticated User** or a specific group or domain).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="core" label="Pomerium Core">

Create a `config.yaml`. It routes `jellyfin.yourdomain.com` to the Jellyfin container, allows WebSockets for the web client, preserves the host header so Jellyfin's links stay correct, and removes the total request-time cap for long playback and downloads.

<Config />

Replace `jellyfin.yourdomain.com` with your domain and `you@example.com` with the email (or switch to a group or domain match) that should be allowed through. Restart Pomerium after saving.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configure Jellyfin

Jellyfin needs to know its public URL and to trust the Pomerium hop so it does not mangle absolute URLs. The key settings in the Compose file below:

> - `JELLYFIN_PublishedServerUrl: https://jellyfin.yourdomain.com` -- Jellyfin builds absolute URLs (the web client, casting, Digital Living Network Alliance discovery) from this value, so it must match the public route host, not the container name.

Reviewer: We can use real em dashes — no need to fake them using a double hyphen. (And likewise throughout this file.)

Also I'd suggest writing "From URL" rather than "public route host" to match the Pomerium-specific terminology above.

```suggestion
- `JELLYFIN_PublishedServerUrl: https://jellyfin.yourdomain.com` — Jellyfin builds absolute URLs (the web client, casting, Digital Living Network Alliance discovery) from this value, so it must match the **From** URL chosen above.
```

## Run the stack

The Compose file runs Pomerium Core and Jellyfin together. For Zero, drop the `pomerium` service and use the `compose.yaml` from the Quickstart with your `POMERIUM_ZERO_TOKEN`, keeping the `jellyfin` service below; put `jellyfin` on the same Docker network as the Quickstart's `pomerium` service (the Quickstart names it `main`) so Pomerium can resolve `jellyfin` by name.

> <Compose />

Reviewer: The order seems off here. I'd expect this configuration file to fall under the "Configure Jellyfin" section heading, and the "After first boot" paragraph to follow the "docker compose up -d" command.

Add `-v` only if you mean to delete Jellyfin's config and cache volumes.

## Verify the setup

1. **The route requires authentication.** In a fresh browser, open `https://jellyfin.yourdomain.com`. You should be redirected to sign in through Pomerium, not straight into Jellyfin.
2. **An allowed user reaches Jellyfin.** Sign in with a user your policy allows. Pomerium redirects you back and Jellyfin's own web client loads behind the gate.

![The Jellyfin web client reached through Pomerium after single sign-on](./img/jellyfin/jellyfin-setup.png)

3. **The upstream is actually live behind the gate.** With your session, open `https://jellyfin.yourdomain.com/System/Info/Public`. Jellyfin answers `200` with a small JSON document (it includes a `Version`); that endpoint needs no Jellyfin login, so a JSON response confirms the gate opened and the proxy reached a running Jellyfin rather than an error page.
4. **The session is yours.** Open `https://jellyfin.yourdomain.com/.pomerium` to confirm your identity and the group claims Pomerium evaluated.

Pomerium gates the route; Jellyfin runs its own login on top. Jellyfin's accounts and library setup are Jellyfin's concern, not Pomerium's.

> ## Client surface and the gate

Reviewer: This whole guide seems oddly obsessed with the phrase "the gate." Is this really the terminology we want to use?
